you see their little cone-shaped dirt
houses on the ground
like many volcanoes scattered around
your yard
ants are usually harmless little bugs
paying you no attention
just going about their day working hard
but if you've just stepped near a group
of australian bulldog ants
i have one word for you run
these terrifying insects get the name
from those yep hard to miss
those huge spiky jaws protruding from
their mouth
that's what they use to latch onto
whatever critter happens to be their
unlucky lunch today
that meal can include beetles
caterpillars flies
or even wasps spiders and frogs these
ants will go after anything that gets
two clubs
they're ferocious and smart they'll
drive out their competitor
the flat huntsman spider by filling its
nest with twigs leaves and anything on
hand
this drives the arachnid out leaving
more lunch for the ants
but back to those malicious mandibles
that's not the only thing you gotta look
out for
they use those jaws to hold on to
something a meal
an enemy your skin while they inject a
highly venomous stinger
this is no bee sting either they can do
it multiple times and it's harmless to
them
it's the sting you have to look out for
not the bite
though the bite's not a pleasant feeling
either
and if one senses danger it'll release a
chemical in the air to alert the others
if you accidentally get too close to
their colony the whole dang brigade will
come out and
chase you away and to top it all off
they have excellent vision they're fast
and they can jump
they're also pretty big for ants about
as long as a mat stick
stay far away from this one now
don't just watch your feet for dangers
crawling below
look out there's an africanized bee
coming right at you
this thing is a lab experiment gone
terribly wrong
it all started in the 1950s the goal
make a bee that produces
more honey the method cross an african
species of honeybee with a bunch of
european ones
the result a ferocious franken bee more
aggressive
and defensive than most types actually
at first
everything was fine but one day because
of a laboratory mishap
more than 20 colonies of these monsters
broke free
they spread throughout south america and
up into the northern continent
they say these bees don't like it if
someone gets closer than 15 feet
just half the length of a bus to their
home and they
all come out together to defend it
that's around 10 000 angry bees headed
your way
they'll chase down an intruder over the
length of four football fields
hope you've had enough stamina to escape
this bug
and then there are these nightmarish
large bees
the asian green hornet is the biggest
coming in at about the size of your
thumb
and 20 times more massive than your
standard honeybee
these guys feed on honeybees wasps
mantises
and even other hornets they can reach
speeds of 25 miles per hour in pursuit
of food
or to drive an intrusive human away
their stinger is long enough to puncture
a beekeeping suit
and apparently there are cases of these
hornets spraying their venom into an
intruder's eyes
well we'll take a break from flying
frights and head to the beach
but a peaceful shell-collecting trip can
end in a nightmare
if you accidentally pick up a cone snail
when hunting or defending themselves
these snails shoot a needle-like harpoon
through the pointy end of the shell just
a tiny drop of its venom is enough for
10 adults
oh and there's currently no anti-venom
for this one
now the sea dweller with the strongest
venom in the world is the box jellyfish
the creature is pretty large about the
length of your forearm
not including those long long tentacles
yet people may not notice it because
it's see-through
the jellyfish grabs onto its prey with
all those toxic tentacles
they have enough venom for 60 grown
people not many can brag of surviving a
rendezvous with this jelly
oh the sea is no safer than your
backyard
and while you're cleaning out the shed
watch out for the brown recluse spider
they're not nightmarishly big not often
growing larger than the size of a
quarter
but that's the problem you'll easily see
a tarantula coming at you
which are harmless by the way with a
brown recluse you won't see it till it's
too late
the initial bite isn't very painful some
people don't even know they've been
bitten
but as soon as it sank its fangs in you
its venom starts to do its dirty but
silent work within three to eight hours
you get redness and swelling at the site
then comes the burning and it
intensifies from there
the effects are usually done after five
days
but they can continue for up to three
months
even familiar insects can be dangerous
too
like that fly buzzing around your
kitchen you know what journey he's
probably had
well before flying to your place it
probably sat on the
dumpster then it flew over to the public
restroom
blocked all over the floor walls and
toilet seats
maybe it stopped in a cow pasture the
zoo it's been to
all kinds of filthy places and now it's
walking all over that beautiful
fruit bowl you have on display and
whatever microbes were in the stuff it
was stomping around and putting its
mouth parts on
they're now all over your food the thing
about bacteria
it makes people sick so clean up and
keep flies
out now take a closer look at that
ladybug in your house
it could be an imposter the asian lady
beetle
is more yellow-orange than red like
ladybugs
you can tell the difference for sure if
it has an m-shaped stain on its head
if so that's not a harmless ladybug
asian lady beetles were brought to north
america and europe from
asia the goal was to deal with parasitic
aphids
but that plan backfired sounds familiar
and the bug itself became a parasite
there were so many of them they
practically replace the classic ladybug
and not only can they bite they also
produce a
stinky yellow ooze that can stain your
walls
or any other surface they crawl on the
hag moth
looks more like a spider than a
caterpillar all those arm-like tentacles
coming out of its sides
are covered in venomous hairs one touch
can leave you with a painful irritation
if you ever catch any fuzzy caterpillar
crawling on you don't remove it with
your fingers
grab a pair of tweezers if one manages
to sting you
gently put tape on the site and peel it
off to get all the hairs out
don't just use the same piece of tape
twice you could end up sticking a hair
back into yourself
wash the area with soap and water and
use an anti-itch cream if you need
if you're in north america watch out for
the most venomous scorpion on the
continent
arizona bark scorpions travel in packs
so if you ever see one know that its
friends are hiding nearby
they have excellent night vision so they
can see you
while you might not be able to see them
and what's really scary
they prefer to be upside down so
one could be hiding right under the
table you're sitting at
but some terrors are nearly undetectable
to the eye
they sit comfortably on the tips of
grass and wait for their lunch to pass
by
oh look it's your leg the monster grabs
on and makes a human juice box out of
you
ticks might be small but that's what
makes them so scary
they can hide anywhere your grass bushes
on the ground in the leaves you hardly
feel them crawling on you
and their bite goes undetected sometimes
they can even make a person sick
ew yeah that's what most cockroaches
hear during any rendezvous with our
species
like flies they've got their dirty
little hands and feet
all over your surfaces and possibly even
food
and yes they can buy people though it's
rare
and they're found on every continent
except antarctica
hey looks like i'm moving there so how's
this sound
a creepy crawly hanging out right in
your bed
as you sleep soundly at night even worse
it's dining on you
bed bugs are so infamous they need no
introduction
but surprisingly they're not considered
dangerous to health
though who would want to be covered in
small red bites everywhere
also don't assume these guys only hang
out in dirty houses
they'll take any bed in any home if
given the chance
termites don't bite they don't crawl in
your bed and they have no
interest in what food you have in the
cupboards
what they're munching on is your house
and they do it in secret most people
don't even know
they have a problem until it's too late
that's when wood structures start to
lose their strength
like bed bugs they're tough to get rid
of and don't assume they're just in the
walls
they can also be chowing down on the
sofa
yep right there as you watch tv or take
a nap
sweet dreams